Rewrite the package-json helper (#68)
Financial-Times/tooling-helpers: packages/package-json/README.md

# package-json

This library allows you to load, manipulate and write the contents of

> a [`package.json`](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json.html) file.

Author: ```suggestion
a [`package.json`](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json.html) file.
It also provides a [changelog](#getChangelog) detailing any changes
that have been made.
```

> After loading the specified `package.json` file into memory, the `loadPackageJson` method returns a collection of methods that can be used for changing the `package.json` document and writing those changes back to disk.

Author: I think this paragraph would be better under the `loadPackageJson` code example.

Reviewer: done!

# Usage

```
npm install @financial-times/package-json
```

## loadPackageJson

```javascript
const loadPackageJson = require("@financial-times/package-json");
const packageJson = loadPackageJson({ filepath: `filepath/to/package.json` });
```

> methods returned:

Author: ```suggestion
Methods returned:
```

- [getDocument](#getDocument)
- [hasChangesToWrite](#hasChangesToWrite)
- [writeChanges](#writeChanges)
- [getField](#getField)
- [setField](#setField)
- [requireDependency](#requireDependency)
- [removeDependency](#removeDependency)
- [requireScript](#requireScript)
- [getChangelog](#getChangelog)

### getDocument

Returns an object representing the current working state of the `package.json` document. This may be different to what exists on the file system if changes have not yet been written by calling the `writeChanges` method.

```javascript
packageJson.getDocument();
```

### hasChangesToWrite

Checks if there are file changes to write.

```javascript

> packageJson.hasChangesToWrite();

Author: ```suggestion
packageJson.hasChangesToWrite(); // true or false
```

```

> ...returns a boolean.

Author: ```suggestion
```

### writeChanges

Writes to the `package.json` file.

```javascript

> packageJson.writeChanges();

Author: ```suggestion
packageJson.writeChanges(); // true
```

```

### getField

Gets a specific field from the `package.json` object, by passing the field as an argument.

```javascript

> packageJson.getField("name");

Author: ```suggestion
packageJson.getField("name"); // "@financial-times/package-json"
```

```

Returns the contents of the given field:

```javascript
"@financial-times/package-json";
```

### setField

> Sets the value for a specific field in the `package.json` object and returns a changelog entry, when given a field and the value to assign to it.

Author: ```suggestion
Sets the value for a specific field in the `package.json` object and returns a changelog entry.
```

```javascript
packageJson.setField("name", "newName");
```

> Returns a changelog entry:

Author: ```suggestion
Returns a changelog entry object:
```

```javascript

> { event: 'setField',

Author: ```suggestion
{
  event: 'setField',
```

  field: 'name',
  meta: {},
  previousValue: 'oldName',

>   alreadyExisted: false }

Author: ```suggestion
  alreadyExisted: false
}
```

```

### requireDependency

Requires a package to exist as a dependency in `package.json`.

```javascript
packageJson.requireDependency({
  pkg: "prettier",
  version: "1.16.4",
  field: "devDependencies"
});
```

> Returns a changelog entry:

Author: ```suggestion
Returns a changelog entry object:
```

```javascript
{
    event: 'requireDependency',
    field: 'devDependencies',
    meta: {
        pkg: 'prettier',
        version: '1.16.4'
    },
    previousValue: '1.16.3',
    alreadyExisted: true
}
```

### removeDependency

Removes a package as a dependency from `package.json`.

> Returns a changelog entry or `false` if the dependency doesn't exist.

Author: ```suggestion
```

```javascript
packageJson.removeDependency({
  pkg: "prettier",
  version: "1.16.4",
  field: "devDependencies"
});
```

> Returns a changelog entry:

Author: ```suggestion
Returns a changelog entry object, or `false` if the dependency doesn't exist:
```

```javascript
{
    event: 'removeDependency',
    field: 'devDependencies',
    meta: {
        pkg: 'prettier'
    },
    previousValue: '1.16.3',
    alreadyExisted: false
}
```

### requireScript

Requires a script to exist in the `scripts` field of `package.json`.

```javascript
packageJson.requireScript({
  stage: "test",
  command: "npm run unit-test"
});
```

> Returns a changelog entry:

Author: ```suggestion
Returns a changelog entry object:
```

```javascript
{
    event: 'requireScript',
    field: 'scripts',
    meta: {
        stage: 'test'
    },
    alreadyExisted: true
}
```

### getChangelog

> Returns a list of changes that have been made, in the form of an array of changelog entry objects.

Author: ```suggestion
Returns an array of changelog entry objects, which represent all the changes that have been made.
```

```javascript
packageJson.requireDependency({
  pkg: "prettier",
  version: "1.16.4",
  field: "devDependencies"
});
packageJson.requireScript({
  stage: "test",
  command: "npm run unit-test"
});

> packageJson.getChangelog();

Author: ```suggestion
const changelog = packageJson.getChangelog();
```

Author: To improve readability, I think this JavaScript example would benefit from empty lines between each method call.

```

> Returns an array of changelog entry:

Author: ```suggestion
In the example above, the variable `changelog` is an array of changelog entry objects:
```

```javascript
[
  {
    event: "requireDependency",
    field: "devDependencies",
    meta: {
      pkg: "prettier",
      version: "1.16.4"
    },
    previousValue: "1.16.3",
    alreadyExisted: true
  },
  {
    event: "requireScript",
    field: "scripts",
    meta: {
      stage: "test"
    },
    alreadyExisted: true
  }
];
```

> All changelog entries have the following fields:

Author: ```suggestion
All changelog entry objects have the following fields:
```

> - event - The type of event (ie the methods returned by loadPackageJson)

Author: ```suggestion
- `event` - The type of event i.e. `setField`, `requireDependency`, `removeDependency` or `requireScript`
```

> - field - The field in `package.json` that is being changed

Author: ```suggestion
- `field` - The field in `package.json` that was changed
```

> - alreadyExisted - Flag whether the field already existed (default: false)

Author: ```suggestion
- `alreadyExisted` - Flag whether the field already existed
```

Reviewer: do we not want the default values listed?

Author: They're listed in the JSDoc block as they're relevant for when you're implementing a call to `createEntry` from one of the `loadPackageJson` methods, but by the time a changelog entry object has been created by `createEntry` and returned by whichever method called it, the field will have a value.

> - previousValue - Previous value of the field (default: undefined)

Author: ```suggestion
- `previousValue` - Previous value of the field
```

> - meta - Any other fields you want to add to the changelog entry (see individual methods for examples)

Author: ```suggestion
- `meta` - An object containing extra details about the change e.g. `pkg`, `version`, `stage`
```

> See [`src/index.js`](src/index.js) for more details of the available methods.

Author: ```suggestion
```

# package-json

This library allows you to load, manipulate and write the contents of
a [`package.json`](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json.html) file.
It also provides a [changelog](#getChangelog) detailing any changes
that have been made.

# Usage

```
npm install @financial-times/package-json
```

## loadPackageJson

After loading the specified `package.json` file into memory, the `loadPackageJson` method returns a collection of methods that can be used for changing the `package.json` document and writing those changes back to disk.

```javascript
const loadPackageJson = require("@financial-times/package-json");
const packageJson = loadPackageJson({ filepath: `filepath/to/package.json` });
```

Methods returned:

- [getDocument](#getDocument)
- [hasChangesToWrite](#hasChangesToWrite)
- [writeChanges](#writeChanges)
- [getField](#getField)
- [setField](#setField)
- [requireDependency](#requireDependency)
- [removeDependency](#removeDependency)
- [requireScript](#requireScript)
- [getChangelog](#getChangelog)

> ### getDocument

Author: Please update all instances of `getDocument` in the `README` to `get`.

Reviewer: done!
